# LoFtool-Prediction
Code from "Predicting Loss of Function Impact of Genetic Variants: A Machine Learning Approach": 
Abstract: 
The innovation of next-generation sequencing techniques has significantly reduced the price of genome sequencing, lowering barriers to future medical research; It is now feasible to apply genome sequencing to studies where it would have previously been cost-inefficient. Identifying damaging or pathogenic mutations in vast amounts of complex, high-dimensional genome sequencing data may be of particular interest to researchers. Thus, this paper’s aims were to train machine learning models on the attributes of a genetic mutation to predict LoFtool scores (which measure a gene’s intolerance to loss-of-function mutations). These attributes included, but were not limited to, the position of a mutation on a chromosome, changes in amino acids, and changes in codons caused by the mutation. Models were built using the univariate feature selection technique f-regression combined with K-nearest neighbors (KNN), Support Vector Machine (SVM), Random Sample Consensus (RANSAC), Decision Trees, Random Forest, and Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost). These models were evaluated using five-fold cross-validated averages of r-squared, mean squared error, root mean squared error, mean absolute error, and explained variance. The findings of this study include the construction of multiple models with r-squared values of 0.97. 

Using machine learning models to predict LoFtool scores using Kaggle Dataset 10.34740/kaggle/dsv/1030915. 
Paper: "Predicting Loss of Function Impact of Genetic Mutations: A Machine Learning Approach" 
See workflow.png for more detailed description of each file.
